# Our Mission

The Advanced Surf Forecast project, as of now, is intended to be a tool for a select few surfers to more easily and more accurately plan their surfing life. We are making this tool because after a lifetime of surfing we can tell that it would be of great utility to us. It takes some work planning out where a swell is going to hit best and making sure that you don't get skunked when you travel in pursuit of it. Lets make some computers do it for us!

## Part 1

The first aspect of this project will include running analysis to find the most ideal surf spots based on the forecasted conditions. We will use web scraping to create a large dataset of the ideal swell, tide, and wind conditions of hundreds of surf spots. Then we will allow the user to log in to their Surfline Premium account (the most popular surf forecasting service) and search a radius of their choosing for the spots that are set up to break the best during the current conditions being forecasted, so you could either see what spot in town will be best for your morning session, or look weeks into the future to plan a little weekend road trip to find waves. This will only be used by a select few people testing the software.

## Part 2:

The second part is being created to give surfers access to better spot specific forecasting. We will let select surfers who login to their Surfline Premium account test this software by entering their own collected data about a surfing session that they have approximated from that day under numerous different variables, allowing the software to better predict how that spot will be based on the regional forecast. We will take real time weather, tide, and swell data from weather services, Surfline, or buoys to compare the data the user inputted to better predict how the conditions will be at the spot just by looking at the real time data. Instead of a more general forecast, we will use these many data points that have been inputted to be able to accurately predict the surf with great detail and predict more variables of the conditions than before. We will be working specifically on our home break, Blacks Beach in La Jolla, CA for this leg of the project.
